[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Let's now turn
our attention to closure.
We already sort of mentioned this several
times, I wanted to give you a slightly
more formal, but still very, very
informal definition for Closure, okay?
This maps somewhat,
to another definition I've given
this in another one of my workshops.
But again,
this is all about trying to boil this down
to whatever basic takeaways we can get.
So Closure is when a function
"remembers" the variables
around it even when that
function is executed elsewhere.
Outside of itself and then you take that
function and you send it somewhere else,
where it wouldn't normally
have access to that variable.
The fact that it still has access
to that variable is closure.
I'm not going to go to extreme depth,
length to explain all of that.
I wrote a whole book about scope and
closure if you're interested in
digging more into that topic.
But we'll just illustrate in a very basic
sense how closure is going to be something
we're going to use or see being
used in our functional programming.
Okay, so here's an example,
I have a function foo, and inside of
it I have a variable called count.
And then inside of that,
I have another inner function,
in this case it happens to get returned.
So I'm returning a function back.
We've already seen the returning
function pattern before.
So we're just seeing that again.
But you'll notice that I have that count
variable inside of the function and
it's referencing a variable
outside of it so.
Strictly speaking that's scope but
what's important here is that,
that function gets transported
outside of the function foo.
And even when foo is finished,
cuz foo finishes on line 9.
And there's microseconds of time that
happen between line 9 and line 11, 12,
and 13.
And we would normally think about
the whole state of foo going away.
That foo would finish and
all of its internal state would
just get garbage collected.
But that doesn't happen in this case.
And the reason it doesn't is
because that inner function,
has a closure over that variable count.
Just by simply referencing it,
it gets closure of it.
And that means that that scope,
that state, is going to be kept,
it's going to be preserved.
So we return that function back,
we give it the name x on line 9,
and then we call it multiple times.
And you'll notice that we are actually,
updating that variable every time.
So we are getting out
a new value each time.
That's an extra size of closure.
There are many,
many other ways to think about closure.
I'm sure you've seen them with your
assigning click-handlers to function and
referencing variables.
Setting up timers, Ajax callbacks,
hundreds of other examples.
Here we see a closure because
a function is remembering enable to
access a variable that was around it,
that is outside of it.
Even though we take that function and
transport it elsewhere.
In this case returning it out.
Now something interesting about this
closure that I want to point out is
that while this is closure.
This is not strictly speaking what you're
probably gonna see as a very common
pattern in functional programming.
Because every time I call x,
I get a different answer.
So there's an internal
state that's happening,
which means I still have to
track that state over time.
I have to understand how many
times x has been called.
It's not an external state.
That's changing something where
that state can be changed
in an entirely different way.
So it's not some free range variable
like count hanging out on the outside.
It's hidden within a closure but
there's still side effects happening,
in the strictly purest sense.
So the way we're using this
function have two very,
very functional concepts
being married together here.
But the way we've married them
together is not as functional.
It's a bit impure that
doesn't make it bad.
I use this all the time and many of
you use this in your programming but
you should be aware.
If you're trying to use
a functional concept,
this usage of closure is
perhaps not as functional pure.
Now how could we use closure in a more
effective way as a functional programmer?
Same principal will apply, closure is the
same principal regardless of how you look
at it but how we use it can be different.
So in this case, I declare a function
called sumX, it receives an x variable.
You'll notice that I am closing over that
x, just like I was in the previous slide.
I am closing over that variable and
I am returning that function.
But what's the key difference here?
The key difference is
that x never changes.
Does everybody see that?
For the lifetime of my
reference of that function,
which I happen to call on line seven,
I call it add ten.
For the lifetime of that function,
every single time I call it the x
value is always going to be ten.
Same principle, still closure,
but here I'm not allowing it to
make some side effecting change.
Where I'm going to get a different answer
every time, this is more functional.
This is a technique for applying more
functional programming idioms to
our programs to make them more reasonable.
So here I'm making a function,
an incredibly useful function and
another one you should add to your
utility library, get rich and famous.
I'm making the add ten function
which takes anything that you add
to it like the value three.
And it adds it to the value ten that
it's already saved in its state,
saved in its closure.
It turns out that sort of technique
of creating something, sort of as
a specialized thing that it doesn't have
other stuff, this goes by fancier terms.
So, bear with me for just a moment.
It goes by currying or partial
application, but taking a function that
normally would need multiple variables and
presetting some of those using closure.
That's called currying or sometimes
depending on how your'e using it.
Whether its currying or
partial application,
they are kind of two sides of
a rubik's cube if you will.
So yeah, so
there's some crazy complex terminology but
let's not worry about currying and
partial application.
Let's just worry about this idea
that a function can remember
the variables that it has around it.
And we can use that to our advantage
to save some state along the function.
The fact that, that state doesn't
change over time is what makes this
easier to reason about.